Type 'p' to obtain prompting on input: 

Type `debug' to Turn On Debugging: debug
: file
: CLOCK
:tparams
: end

Type 't' to obtain traceback of debug lines upon error termination:
Enter the spatial dimension of the computation: 3

Enter the remapping (Jacobian) converting the physical coordinate system
to the cartesian computational coordinate system.
The choices are
		Identity Remap (i or I) (default),
			Type Choice Here: I
Enter the computational limits in the x direction, XL, XU: 0 1
Enter the computational limits in the y direction, YL, YU: 0 1
Enter the computational limits in the z direction, ZL, ZU: 0 4
Enter the Numbers of Grid Intervals of the
	Computational grid in the x, y, & z directions: 20 20 80
The topological grid is a grid used for the construction of the tracked front
	topology.  It is constrained to be a square grid.  You specify the grid
	in one of two ways.  If you enter a single number,  it will be used as
	a coarseness factor for the topological grid relative to the 
	computational grid entered above.  In this case the length of a
	topological grid block cell side is the nearest allowable multiple of
	the shortest side of the computational grid by the coarseness factor.
	Otherwise the code will read the three integers input for the number
	of grid cells in each coordinate direction of the topological grid.
	If your input values do not yield a square grid they will be corrected
	to produce a square grid.  This correction will attempt to produce
	values close to those input, but if the input values are highly 
	rectangular, the resulting values may differ considerably
	from those entered.  The default for this input option is the nearest
	square grid that matches the computational grid.  Generally the
	topological grid is coarser than the computational grid.  Larger
	coarseness factors yield coarser grids,  a value one gives the
	nearest square grid to the computational grid.
Enter your choice (cor_fac, three integers, or return)
	(defaults are 10 10 60): 1

		General run termination/pause conditions

Enter limits on real time (max time), mesh time (max timesteps),
	and an optional initial time: 15 1000 0
Specify the pause time mode [exact(dflt), constant, mesh]: exact
Enter the first Pause Time (dflt = Inf): 
Enter maximum number of time step reductions allowed during
	a propagation (default = 0): 5

Construct tetragrid [dflt = n]: n
Use least square [dflt = n]: n

		Printing Control

Request main output format(s). Options are
                front_plots only (F)
                front_plots plus interior_states (Restart format) (R)
                SDS files (S)
                VTK files (V)
                PROSTAR plots (P)
                suppress output (dflt)
	Enter the list as a string of characters: R V

Prompt for front_plots printing control.
Specify the interval type for printing 
	[exact, constant, mesh(dflt)]: exact
Enter the step interval and first step for printing 
	(default = 1 0): 5 0
Request binary/non-binary output [b(dflt),n]: b

Prompt for interior_states printing control.
Specify the interval type for printing
	[exact(default), constant, mesh]: exact
Enter the time interval and first time for printing
	(default = 2 0): 5 0
Request binary/non-binary output [b(dflt),n]: b

Prompt for VTK_plots printing control.
Specify the interval type for printing
        [exact (default), constant, mesh]: exact
Enter the time interval and first time for printing
        (default = 1 0): 1 0
Request binary/non-binary output [b,n(dflt)]: b

To obtain geomview plots type y (default = no): y
Enter a root name for the output directory: 
Specify the interval type for printing
        [exact (default), constant, mesh]: exact
Enter the time interval and first time for printing
        (default = 2 2): 1 0
Request binary/non-binary output [b,n(dflt)]: n

The user can request that restart dumps be printed at a specified wall
	time interval.  These dumps will be named
	out/rt3d.lastdump0 and out/rt3d.lastdump1
	and will be alternately overwritten as the run proceeds
	The wall time dump frequency can be given in units of seconds,
	minutes (default), or hours.  Indicate the units in the obvious way
	such as 30 minutes,  2 hours, etc.
To request this option enter the wall time print frequency: 6 hours
Print wall time dumps in binary (default = no): 

Request composition type of materials. Available types are:
		PURE_NON_REACTIVE (PNR, default)
		MULTI_COMP_NON_REACTIVE (MCNR)
	Enter choice here: 

                VTK plotting initialization

Specify variables to be plotted (VTK).The choices are --
                x-velocity (X), y-velocity (Y), z-velocity (Z),
                flow speed (U), kinetic energy density (K), momentum (M),
                density (D), energy density (E),
                divergence of velocity (W), pressure (P),
                specific internal energy (I), temperature (T),
                specific enthalpy (H), entropy (S),
                radial component of velocity (RV), or Mach number (N).
        Enter choices as a space separated list, using multiple lines if needed.        Terminate all lines EXCEPT THE LAST with a backslash '\'
        Enter choices: D

From the above vtk variables choosen, specify in an ordered list the
varibles which you would like to be put in a vector file.  For example,
if you would like a velocity vector your would type "VX VY". Please
remember that you MUST INCLUDE THE VARIBLES THAT YOU WANT PRINTED AS
VECTORS IN THE ABOVE LIST AS WELL.
        Enter choices as a space separated list, using multiple lines if needed.        Terminate all lines EXCEPT THE LAST with a backslash '\'
        Enter choices: 

You may specify a sub-sampling factor (a factor of 2 would sample half
        the data points in each dimension uniformly). Your sub-sampling factor must
        divide evenly into the number of data points contained in each dimension of
        each processor. Failing this criteria will cause the program to exit.
        If you do not want to sub-sample, enter 1.
        Specify a sub-sampling factor: 1

You will now be prompted for a base file name and optional directory for the
        VTK output.  Output for each variable is to a separate file whose name
        contains the base name, and the prompt string for that variable.
Enter a file name for the output
        for VTK data (default = out/vtk/rt3d1/rt3d1): 

Specify additional GAS printing variables.  The choices are,
	VELOCITY (V),
	RADIAL COMPONENT OF VELOCITY (RV),
	PRESSURE (P),
	SPECIFIC ENTROPY (S).
Enter the list as a string of characters: 

		Specify interior hyperbolic difference method

Select the difference method for solving the hyperbolic
system in the interior regions away from the fronts
Choices are
	Advance fronts only (AF)
	Split Lax-Wendroff (LS,default)
	Vectorized split Lax-Wendroff (VLS)
	Vectorized split MUSCL (VM)
	Unsplit Lax-Wendroff (LWU)
Enter choice here: VM

Current values for MUSCL parameters
	State reconstruction = Reconstruct density, energy, velocity
	Riemann solver = Colella-Glaz's approximate Riemann solver

	Current values of the Colella-Glaz Riemann solver parameters
	Maximum number of iterations for Riemann solver        4 
	Minimum pressure jump below which mass flux            1e-06
		is replaced by acoustic impedance
	Velocity convergence tolerance                         1e-06
	The strong wave tolerance above which approximate      100
		Riemann solver is replaced by an exact solver
	Minimum allowed mass flux                              1e-12
	End List of Colella-Glaz Riemann solver parameters

	Irregular hyp stencil method = MUSCL
	Tangential sweep method = MUSCL
	Don't test for negative density and energies at half step
End List of current values for MUSCL parameters

Use all defaults for MUSCL code (dflt = y): n
Choose the desired type of linear reconstruction, Choices are
	Reconstruct density, energy, velocity (D, default)
	Reconstruct eigen coordinates (E)
	Bell-Colella-Trangenstein reconstruction (B)
	First order Godunov reconstruction (zero slopes) (F)
Enter choice: 
Test for negative density and energies at half step (dflt=no): 
Choose the desired Riemann solver, Choices are
	Exact Riemann solver (E)
	Linear approximate Riemann solver (L)
	Colella-Glaz's approximate Riemann solver (C, default)
Enter choice: L
Choose the irregular stencil method, Choices are
	Lax_Wendroff (L)
	MUSCL (M, default)
Enter choice: 
Choose the tangential sweep method, Choices are
	Lax_Wendroff (L)
	MUSCL (M, default)
	First order godunov (G)
Enter choice: 

Current defaults for artificial viscosity parameters---
	Artificial Viscosities and Heat Conductions
	Use nonlinear artificial viscosity = no
	Coefficient of nonlinear artificial viscosity = 0
	Use linear artificial viscosity = no
	Coefficient of linear artificial viscosity = 0
	Use upwind artificial viscosity = no
	Coefficient of upwind artificial viscosity = 0
	Use MUSCL slope flattening = yes
	Muscl slope flattening parameter eta inverse = 2
	Muscl slope flattening minimum shock strength = 0.25
	Coefficient of artificial heat conduction = 0
	Muscl slope flattening charateristic speed cutoff  = 0
	Coefficient of dynamic surface tension = 0
Use current defaults for artificial viscosity parameters
	(dflt = y,  type p to print defaults): y

To initialize gravitational acceleration, type 'y': y
	Enter x component of gravity (dflt = 0): 
	Enter y component of gravity (dflt = 0): 
	Enter z component of gravity (dflt = 0): 0.14
Use default settings for dynamic tracking (default = y): 
Point propagation parameters have the current default values
	Operator split normal/tangential update
Use defaults for point propagation operators (dflt = y): 
Use defaults for linear interpolation options,
	answer yes or no or print defaults [yes]: 
Enter an upper bound for the number of components (default = 10): 5

Specify initial interface of tracked curves
Choices are
	Input interface by hand (type `screen')
	Input interface from a file (restart option - enter filename)
	Request default option(s) (hit `return')
Enter choice: 

		curve redistribution control

Enter the mode of curve redistribution --
	`none', `expansion', or `full' (dflt): 
Enter version of full curve redistribution
	ordinary full curve redistribution [o]
	equi-bond curve redistribution [e(default)]
Enter choice: 

                front spacing control

Enter the spacing for general surfaces in dimensionless
	length/mesh units (dflt = 0.75): 
Enter the spacing for vector type surfaces in dimensionless
	length/mesh units (dflt = 0.75): 

                surface redistribution control

Enter tracking algorithm, choices are:
        Grid free tracking(F),
        Grid based tracking (G),
        Mixed strategy tracking (M),
	Locally grid based tracking (L),
Enter choice: G

		time step size control

Use defaults for front time step control (y dflt, p prints defaults): n
Enter the time step factor (fraction of CFL condition - default 0.75): 0.75
Enter the CFL increase factor (default 1.1): 
Enter the minimum time step modification factor (default 0.75): 
Enter the maximum time step modification factor (default 1.25): 

                flow specified state enforcement at fronts

Enforce flow specified states at fronts (dflt=yes): 

Type yes to propagate front in moving frame (dflt = no): 

Select normal computation algorithm, choices are
        Area weighted normals (AREA, default)
        Least squares plane fit (PLANE)
Enter choice: 

To use curvature dependent limiting at scalar fronts
        enter the curvature factor (dflt = 0): 
Enter yes for adaptive partition (default is no): n
Enter yes to re-partition the output at the end of run: n
Request problem type.  Current choices are:
		an astrophysical jet (AJ),
		a plane front (P),
		a elliptical Riemann problem (ERP),
		a Kelvin-Helmholtz instability problem (KH),
		a random surface instability problem (RS),
		a Meshkov instability problem (M),
		a shock diffraction (D),
		a shock transmission (T),
		a contact-contact interaction (CC),
		a Richtmyer-Meshkov instability problem (RM),
		a Richtmyer linear theory (RL),
		a bowshock (B),
		a ramp reflection problem (R),
		a shock running over an expanding wedge (X),
		an ambient state test (AM),
		a Rayleigh-Taylor instability problem (RT),
		a bubbles and drops problem (BD),
		a expanding shells (ES),
		shock jet interaction (SJ),
		or a trigrid test (TRI).
	Enter choice here: RS

Light fluid is above and heavy fluid below.
Four types of random surface problems are supported:
	Accelerated random surface (AS)
	Rayleigh-Taylor random surface with linearized initial states (RT)
	Rayleigh-Taylor without linear analysis (RA)
	Kelvin-Helmholtz random surface (KH).
Enter choice: RA
Enter the choice of initial front description:
Three types of descriptions are supported:
       Multiple mode description (M, default),
       Multiple bubble description (B),
       Multiple random bubble description (R).
       Enter choice: M
Enter the number of modes in the initial interface: 2
Enter the mean position of the front above L[2]: 2.0001
Enter the amplitude of mode 0: 0.05
Enter the phase of mode 0: 90
For coordinate direction 0, enter the frequency of mode 0: 0
For coordinate direction 1, enter the frequency of mode 0: 1
Enter the amplitude of mode 1: 0.05
Enter the phase of mode 1: 90
For coordinate direction 0, enter the frequency of mode 1: 1
For coordinate direction 1, enter the frequency of mode 1: 0

Enter the boundary type of perturbation in direction 0: PERIODIC
Enter the boundary type of perturbation in direction 1: PERIODIC
Enter the density below, above: 2 1
Type y to turn off tracking for the contact: 

Enter the number of EOS models to be used: 2
Enter the equation of state type for the material with index 0.
Current choices are:
	Obstacle (behind reflecting wall) (O).
	Vacuum (V).
	Polytropic (gamma law) gas (P).
	Stiffened polytropic gas (SP).
		Enter choice here: P
Enter the polytropic exponent (gamma)
	for the gas for the fluid below: 1.4

Use current defaults for artificial viscosity parameters
	(dflt = y,  type p to print defaults): y

Use defaults for thermodynamic restrictions (dflt = yes): y

Enter the equation of state type for the material with index 1.
Current choices are:
	Obstacle (behind reflecting wall) (O).
	Vacuum (V).
	Polytropic (gamma law) gas (P).
	Stiffened polytropic gas (SP).
		Enter choice here: P
Enter the polytropic exponent (gamma)
	for the gas for the fluid below: 1.4

Use current defaults for artificial viscosity parameters
	(dflt = y,  type p to print defaults): 

Use defaults for thermodynamic restrictions (dflt = yes): y

Input the EOS model (0 <= an integer <= 1, p prints available options)  for the fluid below: 0

Input the EOS model (0 <= an integer <= 1, p prints available options)  for the fluid above: 1

Enter the ambient pressure: 1
Add velocity shear across interface? (dflt = no): 
Enter the surface tension for the contact (dflt = 0): 0.0
There are two ways of implementing Neumann boundary
	conditions.  Half grid offset boundaries (H) or
	reflecting boundary state (F, default).
Enter choice here: F

Enter the data type -- Passive, Neumann, Dirichlet, Periodic, or Unknown --
	for the bottom boundary in the z direction: NEUMANN
Enter the data type -- Passive, Neumann, Dirichlet, Periodic, or Unknown --
	for the top boundary in the z direction: NEUMANN

Type 'y' to have the Navier-Stokes terms computed for
        several eos models, and this will turn on
	        parabolic driver parab_driver (y, n(dflt)): 

Type 'y' to have local mesh refinement: 

		Statistics Control

Type 'y' to initiate prompting for statistics/diagnostics: y
Type 'y' to request grid statistics for conserved variables: 
Type 'y' to request a periodic glimpse of the solution
	via a plot of the component regions: 
Type 'y' to request interface extrema data: n
Type 'y' to request layer statistics: n
Type 'y' to request interface statistics: n
Type 'y' to request rect state statistics: n
Type 'y' if you wish to compute the Lp norm of the         
	difference between the linearized and nonlinear solutions: n
